- An authorization request cryptogram, or ARQC, which is generated by the card.
  - EMV ARQC = Dynamic Cryptogram
- An authorization response cryptogram, or ARPC, which is generated by the card issuer.
- The Issuer; the bank issuing the card to the cardholder. In the case of debit specifically that’s the bank managing the checking account.
- The Cardholder; You, me, any individual.
- The Merchant; Starbucks, Tesco, Amazon, etc.
- The Acquirer; The merchant bank. Technically the bank managing the commercial account of the merchant. 
- Application Identifier (AID). A data label that differentiates payment systems and products. The card issuer uses the data label to identify an application on the card or terminal. Cards and terminals use AIDs to determine which applications are mutually supported, as both the card and the terminal must support the same AID to initiate a transaction. Both cards and terminals may support multiple AIDs.
  - Visa credit or debit A0000000031010
  - Visa Electron A0000000032010
  - MasterCard credit or debit A0000000041010, etc.
- The terminal and card each maintain a list of AIDs that they support.
  - The terminal (PINPAD) keeps a list of AIDs that it can support. Logic and configuration data specific to each AID must be added to the terminal.
  - In the card, an Issuer loads applications and corresponding AIDs to the chip.
- Card skimming is the theft of credit and debit card data and PIN numbers when the user is at an automated teller machine (ATM) or point of sale (POS). Card skimming allows thieves to steal money from accounts, make purchases and sell card information to third parties for the same purposes. The act of using a skimmer to illegally collect data from the magnetic stripe of a credit, debit or ATM card.
- Counterfeit fraud occurs when a criminal skims or copies the data held on the magnetic stripe of a legitimate credit or debit card and uses this data to create a fake plastic card, which contains the real cards details – this is known as a counterfeit card.
- CVV stands for Card Verification Value
- CVC is short from Card Verification Code
- CVV2/CVC2 It's a security number printed on a payment card and not stored in the chip or magnetic stripe.
- CVV1/CVC1 Stored in the magnetic stripe.
- Online Security Functions: Symmetric Keys.
- Offline Security Functions: Asymmetric Keys.
